Uniswap V4 - Hooks docs (#642)
Uniswap/docs: docs/contracts/v4/concepts/01-intro-to-v4.mdx

---
id: intro-to-v4
title: Introduction to Uniswap V4
sidebar_position: 0.5
---

Uniswap V4, the latest iteration of the Uniswap protocol, is a significant advancement in the world of decentralized

> exchanges (DEXs) and automated market makers (AMMs). Here are some of the key features of Uniswap V4:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exchanges (DEXs) and automated market makers (AMMs). Here are the key features of Uniswap V4:
```

> **Customizability with Hooks:** Uniswap V4 introduces a new feature called "hooks," which are essentially smart
> contracts that can be attached to liquidity pools. These hooks enable a high degree of customization, allowing
> developers to implement specific functionalities at different points in a pool's lifecycle, such as before or after
> swaps and liquidity modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Customizability with Hooks:** Hooks, most similar to webhooks, are smart
contracts attached to liquidity pools. These hooks enable arbitrary logic execution during the Uniswap lifecycle, such as before and after swaps.
```

For example, hooks can be used to create pools with full range liquidity, akin to

> Uniswap V2 style pools, or to implement features like limit orders and various types of oracles. The flexibility of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, hooks can enable order types (i.e. limit order), specially-tailored oracles, or custom AMM curves . The flexibility of
```

hooks allows for a broad range of innovations while maintaining the core efficiency of the platform.

**Singleton Contract for Efficiency:** A significant architectural change in Uniswap V4 is the introduction of a
Singleton contract. In previous versions, each token pair required a separate smart contract, leading to higher gas
costs, especially in multi-hop trades. The Singleton contract model consolidates all pools into a single contract,
significantly reducing gas costs for both trading and pool creation. This model allows for more efficient multi-hop
trades as tokens do not need to be transferred between multiple contracts. Additionally, creating a new pool in
V4 is 99% cheaper in gas costs compared to V3, lowering barriers for setting up new pools.

**Flash Accounting System:** Another innovative feature in Uniswap V4 is the "flash accounting" system. This system
allows users to lock a contract and perform multiple actions in a single transaction, such as swapping tokens or adding
liquidity. The system keeps track of the net balances of tokens going in and out, and at the end of the transaction,

> it checks if all debts have been settled. If the user hasn’t settled their debts, the entire transaction reverts,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Flash Accounting System:** Another innovative feature in Uniswap V4 is the "flash accounting" system. This system
allows users to efficiently chain together multiple actions in a single transaction, such as swap-and-add-liquidity. The system tracks the net balances of inbound and outbound tokens; at the end of the transaction,
the contract verifies all debts have been settled. If the user hasn’t settled their debts, the entire transaction reverts,
```
